ReadMe Temp and Salinity Model.txt

This folder contains the following subfolders:

1) monthly
2) threshold
3) tide_gate
4) weekly
      
More details on the files in each subfolder:

1) The /monthly subfolder contains monthly-averaged maps of surface and bottom temperature and salinity over 2014-2016. The maps only show South Slough, but the text files (.csv files) include the entire model grid. These .csv files list the same monthly-averaged values on the model grid with the coordinates in Oregon State Plane south (units are meters). 

2) The /threshold subfolder contains two maps, one for oysters and one for eelgrass, that show the # of days outside the thresholds for temperature, salinity, or both at the same time for eelgrass (T>18 C, S<13 g/kg) and oysters (T>15 C, S<15 g/kg). These are the average # of days per year over the 3 years of the model results (2014-2016). The .csv files list these values on the model grid, with the coordinates in Oregon State Plane south (units are meters). 

3) The /tide_gate subfolder contains .csv files that are time-series of variables at select model nodes near tide gate locations as given to us by SSNERR. The locations are listed in each file in latitude/longitude. The variables include min/max/mean monthly-averaged values of salinity and temperature and water level (wl).  Some of the locations are at the edges or outside the model grid, and may only intermittently get wet (in the model) so show up as NaN (= not a number).

4) The /weekly subfolder contains weekly-averaged maps of surface and bottom temperature and salinity over the months of January and September from 2014-2016. The maps only show South Slough, but the text files (.csv files) include the entire model grid. These .csv files list the same weekly-averaged values on the model grid with the coordinates in Oregon State Plane south (units are meters). 


The other files contain .csv tables and example maps of the following output:

1. Depth-averaged SSC_90thPercentile. These tables contain the 90th percentile of depth-averaged suspended sediment concentrations (g/L) in the model domain from a one-month period in each of three seasons (summer, winter event, and winter - see the time-series plots in the pdf for reference). For summer, this one-month period starts on June 22nd. For the winter and winter event cases, this one-month period starts on Jannuary 10th. 

2. Taub_hrshighstress. These tables contain the number of hours when the bed shear velocity exceeds 1 cm/s, which is commonly used as a nominal threshold of motion for sand. It should be noted that bed shear velocity is simply bed shear stress which has been re-dimensionalized according to the fluid density to yield units of m/s. This calculation was made for the same one-month period used for the depth-averaged SSC values (above), and so the total number of hours in the record is 2880.


The hdyrodynamic and sediment-transport models used to generate these files are described more fully in the following papers:

Eidam, E. F., Sutherland, D. A., Ralston, D. K., Conroy, T., & Dye, B. (2021). Shifting sediment dynamics in the Coos Bay Estuary in response to 150 years of modification. Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans, 126(1), e2020JC016771.

Eidam, E. F., Sutherland, D. A., Ralston, D. K., Dye, B., Conroy, T., Schmitt, J., ... & Wood, J. (2020). Impacts of 150 years of shoreline and bathymetric change in the Coos Estuary, Oregon, USA. Estuaries and Coasts, 1-19.

Conroy, T., Sutherland, D. A., & Ralston, D. K. (2020). Estuarine exchange flow variability in a seasonal, segmented estuary. Journal of Physical Oceanography, 50(3), 595-613.


These outputs were generated by Dr. David Ralston (dralston@whoi.edu) on 2024/06/04 for use by the South Slough Estuarine Research Reserve. 

